## Concept
https://coderanch.com/wiki/718795/Unit-Testing
https://www.testim.io/blog/unit-test-vs-integration-test/  
A test is not a unit test if:
- It talks to the database
- It communicates across the network
- It touches the file system
- It can’t run at the same time as any of your other unit tests
- You have to do special things to your environment (such as editing config files) to run it

Also quote from Spring doc:  
>True unit tests typically run extremely quickly, as there is no runtime infrastructure to set up.  

## JUnit
- Error: "The input type of launch configuration does not exist" when right click on test class and run as "Junit Test" .  
  Reason is the test class is not created under src/test/java folder.  

## Mockito  

## easy-random
To generate random data in objects.  

## Jacoco
- Error: "Skipping Jacoco execution due to missing execution data file" upon executing Jacoco.  
  Reason: No test case is created. src/test/java is empty.
- To exclude all Lombok-generated bytecode by adding a property to lombok.config file.  
  lombok.addLombokGeneratedAnnotation = true  
  https://projectlombok.org/features/configuration  
  This will add @lombok.Generated annotations to all generated nodes where possible.  
  Note: JaCoCo performs analysis of bytecode and hence annotation must have retention policy RUNTIME (aka "runtime visible") or CLASS (aka "runtime invisible" yet retained in class files)  
  javax.annotation.Generated or javax.annotation.processing.Generated unfortunately both have retention policy SOURCE (aka discarded by compiler).
- For unit testing, should exclude all bean classes and Spring configuration classes.  
- Can use beantutils.copyProperties to make sure code are covered in Jacoco.
- Classes and methods annotated with annotation whose retention policy is runtime or class and whose simple name is Generated are filtered out during generation of report (For jacoco plugin, and NOT applicable to sonar)  
  ```java
  // need to test whether name like ExcludeFromJacocoGeneratedReport is working or not???
  @java.lang.annotation.Retention(java.lang.annotation.RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
  @interface Generated {}
  ```
- Note: 
  ```txt
  The exclustion of classes is ONLY happening at report phase, the plugin or sonarType is generating report from jacoco result jacoco-unit.exec.
  Thus, jacoco plugin exclusion is only for the jacoco report generated under folder /site/jacoco.  
  For Sonar report (CICD), need to set:  
  sonar.exclusion=....
  ```

## Spring Boot
if a test requires starting up Spring in order to run such as @WebMvcTest , it is not a unit test but an integration test.  
@SpringBootTest, @ContextConfiguration, @DataJpaTest and @WebMvcTest are all involved in loading a subset of Spring components. They are in consequence related to integration testing.  
- Use @SpringJUnitConfig to write unit-test
- Use @WebMvcTest with MockMvc to write test for controller layer
- Use @DataJpaTest to write test for persistence layer
- Use @SpringBootTest with TestRestTemplate to write integration-test for Spring Boot application
- Use @MockBean for integration service

## Best Practice
- Maven skip integration test cases  
  @Ignore or 
- Skip spring framework class like Lombok entity/Configure
  Exclude in jacoco configuration
- Use Apache Common IO for file manipulation
- View jacoco report in target site folder
- Use Spring ReflectionTestUtils.setFields to change private field value
- Load test resource  
  input = this.getClass().getResourceAsStream("/data/test_data.txt");
  String data = IOUtils.toString(input, StandardCharsets.UTF-8);
- Random data for bean
  random-easy
- Create instance for private constructor class  
  ```java
  Constructor cxor = CommonUtl.class.getDeclaredConstructor();  
  cxor.setAccessible(true);  
  cxor.newInstance();  
  ```
- Unit test for bean  
  BeanUtils.copyProperities  
